if you want to understand how the next
Crisis unfolds listen up in this series
I am going to break down how we have
gone through previous Cycles relate that
to today and you will understand how the
universal basic income and the Central
Bank digital currency are part of the
next cycle today's video we are going to
explain the Cycles how they work I'm
going to show you all of those details
right here and now in the second video
in this series we are going to basically
explain how they can get away with doing
something that they never could before
introducing something new that would
have seemed impossible just months prior
but a crisis gives them that opportunity
and in the last we are going to talk
about how a roll out of the universal
basic income and Central Bank digital
currency Ubi and
cbdc would look like and what excuses
they will need to use in order to
implement this right here let's begin I
want to talk about the past in past
Cycles what we would have is an
overheating economy and we would
recognize the signs of that overheating
economy such as rising asset prices
excess borrowing and unsustainable
growth rates risk tends to concentrate
in specific sectors and we have noted
this time and time again it's important
to see this every time in the past many
many years ago where there would be a
fire and they would have to put it out
and they would do that of course with
any number of measures usually it goes
without saying that increasing interest
rates would happen during these times
then there's the government response as
risks become evident governments and
central banks react by tightening
monetary policy this could include
raising interest rates reducing
government spending or implementing
regulatory measures to cool down the
economy so we have the overheating think
of it like a
wildfire and so the firefighters come in
and put out that fire and they do that
through these simple measures this is
generally the way that it has been
outlined we have a crisis Point despite
best efforts something in the system
becomes overstressed and breaks leading
to a financial or economic crisis we've
had so many of these over the years it
could be a Great Depression it could be
1970s oil shocks it could be 1987
and then we move on into more modern
times and things are very different and
we're going to explain why we also have
the stimulus measures that take place
governments shift gears introducing
stimulus measures to support the ailing
sector these responses are targeted
aiming to stabilize the economy and
restore confidence and so this is what
would happen they would increase
interest rates they would get rid of
that which is causing that fire and then
of course they would do things to prop
that sector up at a certain point of
course they would start to pull back on
all of that stimulus and why number one
you don't want to create a moral hazard
but at the same time you want to make
sure that there isn't overheating into
that particular sector now that's
important right now this was prior to
the financial crisis prior to the
2000s but since then much has changed if
we start to analyze this change a
Monumental change we're going to
understand how the next Crisis will be
much bigger and it will give them an
opportunity to bring in something they
never have before now I want to tell you
the things that they have done it has
been un IM inable if you remember they
used the word unprecedented many times
throughout 2020 it became the key word
in every article it
seemed but for today's video I want to
focus on the recent history and actions
that they've taken inflation creation
overextended periods central banks and
governments introduce policies that lead
to inflation this might might be through
quantitative easing deficit spending or
other expansive monetary policies you've
seen this yourself so many times in fact
we have gone through and seen the
excessive money printing the excessive
policies that have been put through
which have caused problems along the way
there's no question no doubt nobody's
disagreeing with that and of course
doing so causes a dislocation or A
disruption that eventually rears its
ugly head policy reversal as
inflationary pressures Mount governments
and central banks will recognize the
risks and begin to counteract by
tightening their policies this often
involves increasing interest rates or
reducing government spending so now this
becomes familiar oh we have a problem
here let's put out that fire but who
were the arsonists in the first
place that's right crisis eruption
despite these corrective measures
another part of the economic system
becomes vulnerable and a crisis erupts
and so when you leave interest rates
super low for super long like that which
they did after the years of the
financial crisis up until 2020 and then
did so throughout you know many years
causing a problem that now there's an
addiction the markets are simply waiting
for more stimulus more
easing will they get it well they're
certainly you know salivating at the
thought of that Innovative responses in
the face of the new challenges
governments innovate and deploy untested
measures to to stabilize the economy and
this is where we find it to be very
interesting unique and
unexpected you can see that there have
been many circumstances where we would
say I can't believe they did
this in the next video we're going to
break down exactly what they've done I'm
going to highlight so many things that
might surprise most people in fact even
if you were paying attention during this
period so we do understand the cycles
and how they work previously they would
be
reactionary but now it has seemed to be
that the Central Bank in particular is
somehow suggesting that they can
outsmart the system that their policies
do not create inflation and so they can
allow interest rates to be unnaturally
low they push interest rates down by
doing something that they call open
market operations essentially printing
money this takes place at the New York
fed specifically what they call the desk
and the desk is literally the place
where these things open market
operations happen and that can actually
Force interest rates down to an
unnatural level doing so create it's a
problem where when well we never know
but it does we saw this with the housing
market in the 2000s there were evidence
of this in the mid 2000s but nobody
wanted to listen in
2020 when everything was shut down
lockdowns all around the world we saw
the examples of going wild there were
were stocks that should have never gone
to the levels they were but because
there was this understanding that we are
in a new world that this time is
different and that everything prior to
2020 didn't matter we saw this to be the
case and the government was willing to
let people believe that and so we had an
unusual set of
circumstances there was the Cycles
before there are the new cycles and we
will see that there is going to be yet
another level when this comes through
and we get our Ubi we get our Central
Bank digital currency it will not come
as a result of something we've seen
before a new crisis will have to emerge
and so we will get this new supposed
solution in the next video in this
series we are going to understand
exactly how this all will be implemented
if you watch this you are going to
understand how the actions that they
took time and time again were considered
to be quote
unprecedented that it was impossible
just prior to that implementation and
yet they did it and you will see example
after example that will tell us that the
next time around they are willing to go
for it the implementation of au Ubi and
cbdc and I'll explain how they can link
these two together join me on the next
one